In this video, we're going to
edit our sightings data layer so
that we can add a new sighting
point.
To edit a data layer in QGIS,
you first of all need to put the
data layer that you're editing
in editing mode.
So we'll click on our sighting
points in our layers list, right
click, and then you can click
Toggle Editing.
Here you could also do that by
having your layer selected and
clicking the pencil icon in the
digitising toolbar at the top.
So now we've got editing toggled
on.
We can go into the Edit tab, and
here we have the buttons to add
features as well as we can move
features.
We can delete features in here,
and we also have options for
rotating and reshaping points,
lines, and polygons.
But we're going to click Add
Point Feature, which is going to
give our mouse the tool to draw
on a new point.
So we're going to go on where
that point is in the Wonegizi
protected area.
We'll click and it will bring up
this window where we can put in
the information for the point
that we're adding.
So we'll just add in the
information that we know.
We know the date because it's
the same date as the other nest
sighting in Wonegizi, which is
the 25th of November 2022.
So we can type it in or we can
use the drop down arrow to
change the date, the month and
the day, and then we can put in
the sighting and the environment
as we know its nest and
secondary forest and then we'll
click OK.
If you weren't happy with where
you've put your point, what you
can do is go into the edit tab
and now we can click Move
feature.
You can click on the point that
you've added and then you'll be
able to hold your mouse button
down and drag it to where you
want.
So get it to how you want it to
be, which is in the same place
as the other nest sighting, and
then once you're happy with it,
we can save our changes by
clicking on the save button in
the digitizing toolbar.
The save layer edits and we're
going to toggle editing off now.
So let's go into our sightings
attribute table to see the point
that we've just added, and if we
Scroll down to the bottom, we
can see our point here.
So even though we've plotted our
point on our map, we still don't
have a longitude or latitude for
it.
And that's because we need to
manually calculate this in our
table.
So to do that, we're going to
toggle editing on again using
the pencil icon in the top left,
Scroll down to our row and then
we can select it by clicking on
the number to the left of it.
And then we'll choose the column
that we're calculating, which is
the longitude in the drop down
box just above the table here.
So I'll click on this and we'll
choose longitude.
And then in the box next to it
is where we can type in the
formula for what we're
calculating.
So to calculate longitude we can
type in $ and X because you go
along the corridor and up the
stairs so it's X after the
dollar sign and then we'll click
update selected and now in our
row we can see that's populated
the longitude.
So we just need to do the same
for the latitude.
We'll change this so it says
latitude and then we'll change
the X to a Y and click update
selected and there we go.
That's how to edit a data layer
in QGIS and we've made some
changes to our tables, so just
remember to save it.
We can toggle the editing off
and then click save and then
we'll shut our table and just
hit save for our whole project.